>> Spencer Schneidenbach: We
have done a lot already.
We have connected EF Core to our API,
which is awesome, but
now we get to seed our database.
We get to put stuff in it, okay?
We have a fully functional database now.
Our database file exists,
and we can see it, and
we can connect to it inside of EF Core,
inside of our ASP.NET Core project.
But we wanna put some data in there,
right?
So let's put in some test data so
that we have something to play with.
So in EF Core,
there is a way to seed your database, but
I have not done it, and
I don't know anybody else who has,
which is you can say that Entity.HasData,
and then give it some test data.
And the reason that people don't
typically do this is that people in
a production system,
depending on the environment,
typically don't want data to go just
wantonly inside of a database like this.
I should mention as well the
OnModelCreating, what the heck is that,
it allows you to add some
configuration to your entities or
even properties on those entities.
And we will talk about
that a little bit later.
But just know for now that it allows
you to modify some of the behaviors of
the entities that come through
Entity Framework Core.
It allows you to explicitly modify them,
which is really quite useful.
Talk more about it later, yes, we will.
Okay, I'm not gonna do this, and
it's just not something that's
done a lot in the wild.
I never see anybody use HasData.
Typically, what I do see is that
they'll just define a class, and
then they'll just define a separate
class and just do this separately.
And they'll do this because they can
put it in to their test project and
then uncomment it as they
need to spin up a database.
Or maybe you're moving around a Docker
image that has some pre-baked data in it.
But we'll go ahead and do this.
We're gonna go here, and
we're gonna go to our program.
I'm gonna go to the Solution Explorer,
it's a little bit cleaner looking.
We're getting a lot of files up in here.
Okay, I'm actually gonna close all these.
We did all this, but I do want to
open up the project folder for
the part that we are on,
which is seeding-your-database.
Perfect, that's what we need.
We'll open up Solution Explorer,
and we'll go ahead and
add in a class called SeedData.
We don't need that definition.
We'll just paste ours in.
And we're basically just
going to go through.
From our service provider, we're
gonna get a copy of our AppDbContext.
And if no employees exist in that context,
then we're just gonna add some, and
we're gonna add some with
some employee benefits.
We're gonna add some with some
more data than we had previously.
So we got John Doe and
Jane Smith, pretty good.
Okay, so we like to see,
we'll create our static class.
And then we'll need to
call this from Program.cs.
So we'll go here.
We'll go to Program.cs.
And once the app is built, we do have
access to the dependency injection
pipeline so we can get services from it.
So we're gonna call SeedData.Seed.
And we're gonna say
app.Services.GetRequiredService.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: AppDbContext,
open close, and go.
No, actually,
it just wants the service provider.
We don't even need to do that.
So we'll just give it the service
provider here, app.Services, and
we're gonna run it.
And what the heck happened?
What's this cannot resolve
scoped service AppDbContext?
What does that mean
from the root provider?
We'll break this down a little bit for
you.
This is a common error, and
it's common to encounter and
not necessarily fully understand as
you're getting into dependency injection.
What this is is essentially,
there is what's called a root provider.
These services that we're adding, we're
adding all of those to the root provider.
And what it's trying to say,
what this method is trying to say in
this exception is that DbContext,
specifically our AppDbContext,
is what's called a scoped service.
Now, scope kind of is
similar to block scope, but
it's not a programmatic construct.
This is block scope.
So we know variables declared here
aren't accessible outside of the scope.
It's conceptually the same thing,
but a scope is typically created
in an ASP.NET Core application for
the lifetime of an HTTP request.
So as a request is executing,
the service provider news up
what's called a scope or
CreateScope right there.
So you would say using
var scope = CreateScope.
I like my using statements with curly
braces, so I'm gonna stay with that.
And then the HTTP request executes and
does stuff.
It goes through the middleware
pipeline and does things.
So in the context of an ASP.NET Core
application, that is a scope.
And so a context, a single context,
once it's requested, is created for
the scope of that HTTP request.
And after that request is fulfilled and
gone, then it gets disposed of.
So in this case, our way around this
is to simply just create our own scope.
And you could do that here if you wanted
to, but I'm gonna just do it here instead.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: builder.Build,
SeedData.Seed, and we're gonna do that.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
now you see that it runs successfully.
So at this point now,
we've set up our seed database, or
we've set up our seed method, and
we've gotten that data into that database.
The next thing we'll do is actually
connect our DbContext into our API and
make it so that we can actually query.